---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-04-09T16:18:42.250Z'
dateModified: '2016-04-09T16:18:38.496Z'
title: '‘Me’ On My Mind:'
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-04-09-82f97d35-ee29-400d-86c3-46450adf8341.md
published: true
url: 82f97d35-ee29-400d-86c3-46450adf8341/index.html
_type: Article

---
I guess I'll start with myself. I think later you'll see that this is both the worst and best place to start. It is also the truest beginning and contains the deepest lies. A paradox which is at the heart of what is to follow.

The reason I am starting with myself is because of where I think this will go ... well, never mind that, let's jump in shall we?

I like to think. I also like not thinking (but that's for another post). I have, as far back as I can remember, always had a curious and questioning mind. I also seemed to contain a really big sense of self. I was fascinated by how the world worked, and also how I worked both as a 'me' and as part of the larger world around me. As I grew so did my sense of the world, the universe, and even the multiverse (before I was told that this kind of thing might exist).

At 6 years-old, I came to the understanding that all things die. (It might have been 7 or 8 I don't remember exactly but for the sake of the story \[which often matters more than true facts for this writing\] we will keep it at 6.)

All the plants I saw around me would die some day. All the animals too. This of course led to the realization that everyone I knew would die someday. Which means I too someday will be dead.

I'll be honest, the first time that thought entered my little 6 year-old mind I was scare of it. I held it for just a split second. I then turned my attention to how that thought made me feel. I was terrified. What I felt when I thought that was an emptiness so vast it was beyond comprehension. The nothingness that was contained in that thought caused me to feel something: Deep, dark fear.

When I looked deeper I realized I felt something else - guilt and shame. Was it okay to think about something like this? Did I have to feel bad about this fact. Death seemed to bother a lot of people around me, but did if have it? I grew up in an evangelical Christian community. The first 10 years of my schooling where done in a small private Christian school.

Among many wonderful things they taught me, albeit not in they way they had wanted, was that mind control was very powerful, and it is something we can influence but not control (like your heart beat.) They also taught me that thoughts we think have power, and thoughts, random ideas and theories that seemed to pop into our little heads out of nowhere, could be both wrong and evil. (In some ways I still think this is very true \[again not in the way it was taught to me\], but that is a whole other can a worms that would simply derail this article. So instead, let's get back to death.)

After a little bit, still feeling guilty for having thought about death, which to my little mind seemed like it was one of those naughty things we shouldn't think or do, I decided I was going to do it anyway. And so, though feeling guilty and wrong I spent more time thinking and acknowledging the fact that I was going to die.

Hmm, after the first few times thinking about it I realized the idea of death wasn't really all that scary. I mean, how could it be. everything does it. Really. And it wasn't just living things. Rocks die in a way. Planets die. Through studying science I later learned what I already had assumed as a small child, our Sun will die... and in doing so kill our little home world.

'Okay, cool,'

you might be saying to yourself, 'what does this have to do with anything?'

I am getting there I promise. Just stick with me for a second.

So if we all die, even things like suns and planets, then we must also all be born. In different ways we are all self organizing. (And self destructive, but again, not something we need to go in here) Crystals grow and form, mountains rise and fall, Grasslands turn to deserts, etc.

But I was told only certain things are born. Only things that are ALIVE are born.

Bees and Birds and Trees and Flowers. They are born. But rocks. Rocks aren't born. Planets aren't born exactly... they just clump together over time. If the word born was used to describe how our sun came into existence it was purely poetic.

The sun came into existence in one of two ways. Either this 'thing' that you can't understand called 'God' made something happen (or said something or whatever) and it it was there.

Or this 'thing' you can't understand called 'The Big Bang' made something happen (gas clouds condensed or some shit) and it was there.

But I can't except either of those.

I know them both to be wrong.

I mean I am not saying neither of them happened.

I am saying I actually think they both happened, and neither of them.

It's NOT about whether or not it happened one way or the other. It's about the implications of both.

Both approaches grant life to only certain things. Some things are alive and some things are not. Things that are self replicating are said to be alive. But don't stars self replicate? We say that they form from condensing clouds of dust and gas left over from other stars that exploded in their death. Umm, how is that really different from DNA making more of it self? Neither are making something out of nothing. They are making more or less the same amount of themselves over and over again, in different shapes and forms

Things that seem to lose a special something when they die, these things are alive.

They have a 'life essence' if you will. But not stars. Stars aren't alive. They can't be? Besides they'd be too hot for life as we know it... life as WE know it.

I think it is ego centric the assume we have this special thing that not all things have. Something we share with animals and plants but not atoms and planets. We have something a worm has but the rock and water planet upon which they both live doesn't have it.

What if everything. All the stuff in all the universes there may ever be, what if all of it is alive, every rock you touch, every star you see, even the things we think were once alive and now are dead?

I am not saying I am right. I am asking you to engage in a thought experiment with me. What would that mean? Certain religions believe everything contain an energy, a chi or life force, but even in my modest research (and here you can prove me wrong because I very likely am) none of them take it as far as I think we can go.

Play with the idea that everything is alive. If that is true, the computer you are reading this on is alive. Or wait, is it the computer that is alive, or the pieces that make up the computer. Well, both, right?

Just like I am alive, as are the cells that make up 'me'.

Am I a person or am I the massive collection of cells at that make up something we just happen to call a person? Which one is it. am I a single unit that is alive or am I only the product of a bunch of little alive things.

We are starting to look at things like ant colonies and schooling fish not as single organisms clumped to gather but as one super organisms. So we can look at ourselves the same way.

So when we apply this to our thought experiment then the computer is in the same way a super organism made up of smaller ones. But then wait, is the motherboard a single organism or a super organism made up of metal and plastic and whatever else the hell they make motherboards out of? I think you can see where this can lead. You can take this to the infinitely small. Is an proton a proton or is it the quarks and whatever subatomic particles that it is made of.

I think many of us can realize here that the words we use to describe an object are both the total object and the infinity of ever changing pieces that make up that object. There is no difference other than perspective.

Before I get too far, I want to note then that this same thinking can be applied in the other direction. Am I a single person or am I really just a single cell in the super organism called humanity.

Is Humanity a single organism or single piece of the super organism called plant earth... and earth the solar system... yada yada yada...

You could say we are all connected... or you could take it to the furthest extent, we are all one.

There is no separation. I am both my cells and me. I am both me and a piece of humanity.

Whether the molecules in your body were cooked in the fire of long forgotten stars, or spoken into existence by the fiery voice of God, we are one. Not just you and me, but you and the computer, and table and glass.

It's easier for the brain to categorize this one stuffness into lots of little 'different' stuffnesses. We couldn't function if we didn't separate thing (or could we?) And we teach this separation to each other at a young age, this is me, this is you. This thing is alive, this one is dead. This one never had life, but this is a lie, I think. 

None of this thinking is new.

This is a central theme in many spiritual teachings, and I would even argue most religions, including Christianity and Judaism. 

And what if it's true. How would you treat things, and people, if you knew them not as being connected to you, but as you. What would you do if you treated, not just other people but, all things as you would want to be treated? How would your drink your morning coffee? Would you taste not your coffee, but taste you?

When I remember to approach life with this sort of thought process I find an immediate peace. Many Christians I know would call it surrendering to God. Some people call it flow, or being in the zone. Buddhists I think would call it enlightenment. Some might call it the Tao or Prana. Different words for describing the same thing(s).

I am not saying that in these moments I am enlightened and you are not. That would at once bring about an idea that I am somehow separate from you. I don't think there is such a thing as enlightenment, unless it is the realization that none of us can be enlightened on our own. We are not simply and extension of each other because there is no each other, just 'me'.

So maybe now you can see why starting with myself was both the best and worst place to begin.

So let me end with a question I'd like you to consider, and a call to action I'd like you try. What if we only had one word for every 'thing'? What if that one word was 'me'? Not me in the singular, me in the infinite. How would you look at the person sitting across from you on the bus, how would you respond to hatred or anger coming from 'someone else'? How would you read your email? How would you look at that text from a person you can't stand?

I am not tell you that you have to believe or agree that all things are 'alive and one'.

You don't have to make this your life, just play a game with me, if you will.

Perhaps if you are brave enough you will try this with 'me'. I know it cannot be sustained in all moments of all days. Some times we need to brake things into their separate parts for communication and understanding (for example, I didn't just write the word 'me' over and over again for four pages,) but what if when we talk to ourselves in our heads we replace all the words with 'me' instead. What if when you felt something or judged something as good or bad you were doing it to yourself. Not, 'My coffee tastes great this morning.' but 'I me me this me.' How do you as coffee actually taste.

I dare you to try it.

If you don't like it, if it make you feel uncomfortable and 'wrong' if you feel bad for approaching things in this way, then after 5 minutes just stop. But I bet you'll actually like it.

And even if I am wrong, even if what I say is not true, would your life really be worse off if you still approached it as though I was right?

-RJ Thyme

  
\*A thought experiment about how we can approach everything with love and acceptance.